All right, and so now we get to jump in to another really interesting method that is pretty much taken
straight from the Streams API for this, we're going to do a little bit of setup, though.
So the first thing I want to do is I'm going to create a couple of small model classes here.
Let's see.
First, I will create a record class and I'm again just going to make this as a nested record.
So I'm going to model a car.
With a make and a model, and I don't know a color.
And a year now, I could use a local date like you've seen me do this before, when I needed to model
like birth dates and things like that.
But cars typically only go down to the model a year.
And so and we're going to learn more about this.
I think maybe in the next lesson, in fact, we can model just a year all on its own and not a whole
entire date, so we can just use year of the job that time package so year and then we'll just call
this property year.
All right.
And then let's model a person.
With the first name and a last name.
And a car.
All right.
So we've got those two.
And so now let's go ahead and create, I don't know, one or two people, I suppose.
So let's create a person looks.
We'll call this one p one equals new person.
And let's see, Tom.
Some.
And he's going to have a car now.
I don't know that you've seen me do this before, but I'm going to create a car inside of the constructor
for the person.
It's not anything special, but you may not have seen me do it explicitly like this before, so I can
just do new car and then I can create the car with the car's constructor while I'm creating the person
inside of the person's constructor.
All in one, I wouldn't do a lot of this typically because it may result in a really long line, but
just for convenience here I'm doing it this way.
All right, so my make will be a Tesla.
I'm very partial to Tesla and this will be a Model X and the color will be red.
And the year will be now here.
I can just do a year, sort of.
That nice 2018 and I'm running off the screen here.
But let's see.
There we go.
I've got enough to get the semicolon in there and I don't know.
Let's make one more, I suppose, to and we'll call this person Jerry.
And they also have a Tesla.
But it'll be a Y and it'll be white and it'll be a 2020.
There we go.
OK.
So we've got a couple of people here, and let's close this down.
All right.
So first up, let us simply, you know, let's let's get rid of let's get rid of all of this and we'll
kind of start fresh here.
So let's start off by creating an optional of.
P1 and capture that.
And we'll call it up, person, and then let's get ready to just print that out.
All right.
So first, let's just see what this does.
I think we already know, but OK, so there we go.
It's an optional and then we get the string representation of the person class, which also yields the
string representation, the two string method of the car, right?
So that's what we're getting there.
OK, cool.
Now let's say that we want to obtain just the first name, for example, of this person.
Right?
So some of you who maybe weren't paying total attention might think that you could have just done something
like, you know, get or are or first name.
But obviously, you can't do any of those things because this isn't a person that I'm working with right
now.
It's an optional right.
So I would have to first peel off the optional layer to get to the person underneath so that I can then
get to the first name, right?
So I could do a get, which we already know is generally not a good idea or I could do and or else right.
However, now the or else is wanting me to specify an alternative object that it should return if there
wasn't anything in the optional.
And that might be a little annoying in this case, because the alternative object isn't the string anymore.
It's actually a person, right?
I'd have to supply a whole other person as a backup person, right?
And that feels a little awkward to me.
I don't really want to have to do all of that right?
But there's another thing that I could do that I think is kind of cool.
And that is there's a map function on here, just like from the Streams API.
Now, if you'll recall in the Streams API, we used the map function to basically convert or translate
whatever our main starring object type was within the stream to something else.
So if we had a stream of strings that were numeric, we could convert those text representations of
numbers into actual numbers, right?
So we could go from a stream of strings to a stream of integers or longs or something like that, right?
So the map function simply converts.
It takes an input of whatever the wrapped type is.
So in the streams API, those objects are wrapped inside of a stream in the optional API.
The objects are wrapped inside of optional right.
So it takes the objects that are wrapped inside of the optional, and then it allows us to implement
a function that will access or convert from the one type to the other types.
So in this case, where we want to get the first name, for example, basically we can think of this
as a mapping function where we will map a person to just their name.
So let's first look at what this would look like as a traditional lambda expression.
So it'll take an input of the object that was wrapped inside of the optional, which would be a person
in this case.
So I could call that person and then I'll use my arrow indicator and then I can do anything with that
person, such as access the first name method here, right?
So that's pulling the first name.
So we're converting the person into just their first name, right?
Like so.
So if we hover over the map function here, we see that it wants to return an optional.
So it works with options of T.
That's one type, but it will return optional of another type, which they're calling you here.
OK.
So it's just conveying that whatever data type you had coming in doesn't have to be the same data type
that's going out.
It could be, but it doesn't have to be right.
So T and u.
So here we're going from type person to type string.
OK, now.
So what's coming out of this is still wrapped in an optional, though it's a new optional.
OK.
So let's go ahead and just see what this looks like real quick before we complete this.
So let's run that.
All right.
So now we see that we've got an optional of Tom.
Right.
So there's Tom's first name.
Now we can do this more concisely, as some of you may recall by simply using a method reference, which
is really awesome so we can just do first name same thing, right?
So we've already learned in the Lambda and Streams API module that this is equivalent to the lambda
expression that we just had there.
And in fact, I'll just go ahead and run that.
All right.
And so it's a little more concise.
So that's pretty nice.
Now it's an optional still.
So we will likely want to unwrap that still.
But now we're dealing with something a little more concise, which is just a string.
And so now I don't feel quite as awkward about using the or else right and then saying, like, I don't
know, unknown first name.
So let's run this.
All right, so there's Tom.
But if I point this at a null value to do this, I'm going to have to use the of Nullarbor version,
right?
Now I can just do this, and now I get unknown first name.
So one of the many nice things about this pattern that we're using here is that typically if you had
a variable that was null, you're in fact, let's do this.
Let's create one more P3 equals null.
OK.
So if you had a variable that's null like P3 here and then you had some code where you tried to access
P3 Dot first name, right?
This is always kind of annoying that you have to somehow check first whether or not P3 is null before
you bother digging deeper into that object, right?
And so the nice thing here is that by using Map, we get a safer way of digging into the deeper properties
and or methods of this object without having to worry about null pointer exceptions and things of that
sort.
And even if this thing is null, then we just fall back to the or else and then we can get whatever
we want.
And ideally, this will be a much simpler data type at the bottom of the food chain, so to speak,
right?
And so we don't have to like, create a real big complex dummy object or something of that sort.
Right now, we're just creating an alternative string.
OK, so now that we've done it this way, let's go even one step further.
Let's not just try to grab the first name.
Let's try to grab something from this car, right?
So now we're going a couple layers deep.
And again, that's where it really starts to pay off to use like this mapping pattern here so that you
don't have to keep checking for null ability.
We'd have to normally check is the personal No, OK, is the cardinal no, yes or no?
Then finally, we could dig into whatever thing, but by using the map, we won't have to do that.
So let's change this now to obtain the I don't know.
To obtain the make of the person's car.
OK.
So what we can do now is simply change from first name to car like.
So and then let's get rid of this or else for for a minute here and now we can do another map and do
car make.
And then we can do another or else make unknown.
So you see how much easier this is now.
Maybe we might want to format the code a little bit nicer, kind of like we did in the Streams API,
just so that we can read this stuff a bit more fluidly.
There we go.
Right.
So there's our optional person, and if he's not null, then get his car, and if his car's not null,
then get the make and then if any or all of that is null, then just return.
A string of make is unknown, right?
All right.
Let's run that.
Oops and I forgot to get rid of my little example there.
Let's get rid of that and then let's run that.
There we go.
And so we've got make unknown for our Nullarbor guy there.
And now let's put something legit in and we'll use peat to run that again.
And there we go.
Now we're getting Tesla out of that.
So again, this is just really concise how we can avoid having to write a bunch of conditional statements
to test for null ability first before we can access various sub fields of an object.
Really, really nice and concise way to do this.
Now another scenario I want to show you there are increasingly more developers who are really embracing
the whole optional thing to the point that they're even beginning to create their own APIs and domain
models with optionality just baked right in.
And so I want to show you a little bit of what that could look like if you wanted to do that.
So let's say that you're modeling a person and you say, OK, a person will always have to have a first
name and last name, but they may optionally own a car.
Right?
Not everybody owns a car, especially people who live in big, major cities like New York City.
Lots of people in New York City might not own a car at all.
Right?
And so literally owning a car could be considered optional.
So you might want to model your person class with that concept baked right in.
And one way you could do that would be not to make the person have a car, but to make them have an
optional car.
And so you can actually do this right?
So you can just say they have an option of a car.
And right there it implies that they might have a car.
They might not.
They're under no obligation to own one.
Now notice as soon as I've done this, part of my constructor went into error now because I'm trying
to create a new car and then return that for this field in this field is now expecting this to be optional.
So you know what to do, right?
We can simply wrap this inside of an optional.
So we'll just select all of that and then optional of.
There we go.
And I guess I could have done that a fancier way, but that's all right.
So notice what I'm doing here is I'm selecting all of this text and again, I'm using this control W
for Windows users or alt up arrow for Mac users to select all of the new car statement there, right?
And then I'm going to hit parentheses to the left parentheses and that automatically is surrounding
the entire selection in parentheses.
That is an option, by the way, that has to be turned on an intelligent.
I think I've shown this before, but let me see here if I can show it to you again.
Real quick, if I go over here and type in surround and then jump down here to editor general Smart
Keys, I believe the option is this one right here.
Surround selection on typing quote or brace.
I think that's actually working for more than just quotes or braces, as you just saw me use parentheses
as well.
OK, so that's the option right there.
All right.
So let's cancel out of that.
So then I'll move my cursor over here to the left of this and optional sort of.
All right, and so now I'm creating an option and notice I'm not using of Nullarbor because I don't
need it here.
I'm the one calling this right now.
And so I know for a fact that these aren't null, right and cannot be null in this constructor.
Use that I'm doing right here.
OK, so I don't need the unknowable there.
All right.
So now my cars will be here as optional.
So notice down here now that we're I'm trying to convert a car into just its make, I'm getting red
squiggly.
And if I hover over that, let's see what we get.
Let's see.
So I'm providing a method reference, which is the reference to the make method, the get make method
effectively.
But it says it's expecting a function of something that extends an optional of a car.
So here's the actual problem with this.
You may want to go back and look at the lesson in the Streams API, where I thought about the flat map.
Remember, though, with the flat map, if you're doing a mapping and that mapping returns something
that is inside of its own stream, you must first unwrap that thing from its own stream before you can
continue to use it with the Streams API.
In this case, we're getting a similar situation here.
The map method in this case is expecting that whatever function you're supplying it, that function
is returning just a regular old object, not an object that is wrapped inside of an optional but a regular
object.
And the reason it's assuming that is because the map method will then take that regular object and wrap
it inside of an optional itself.
Right?
That's what the map method does.
But in this case, we're getting a car online.
17.
OK.
And this person car method referenced that we have here used to return a car, and then the map method
was taking that car and wrapping it in a new optional and then passing it on to the next line.
However, now that we've changed things a bit, this person, that car method no longer returns.
And I'm just talking about just this bit right here.
For now, this person, that car method no longer returns a car.
It returns an optional of a car.
OK.
However, that optional of a car is still getting wrapped again by the map method inside of another
optional.
So we've got an optional inside of an optional.
And so now we're down here trying to call cards make and the object that's being passed into the lambda
here.
If you want to remember, you can you can think of this as a lambda expression that would look something
like car.
Car died, get and make right.
That's kind of how you can think of this method reference here, right?
However, the problem is we're not actually receiving an object of type car anymore.
Right now we're receiving.
And optional car and the optional class does not have a get make method on it, and therefore we're
getting an error here.
OK, so we need to unwrap this car out of this optional now and the way we can do that is actually pretty
easy.
There's another method, just as we learned in the Streams API.
There was a flat map, there's a flat map here as well, which can unwrap something that is already
wrapped in an optional so we can just invoke the flat map method right here.
Flat map.
There we go.
Right.
So now the car that's coming out of here won't be doubly wrapped inside of a map, right?
It'll flatten the car that comes out of that person acar method down into just one optional to then
proceed here and the input into this map, by the way, it's going to unwrap one optional for us, right?
We get that one unwrapping for free.
OK.
And so now this is happy.
All right.
And so now we can run this.
And no change, right?
I mean, which is good.
It's working the way that it should be.
And again, just to kind of show how annoying this might have been without using options, we traditionally
would have done something like P1 to get car dot, get make you know, something along those lines.
And we would have had to do some sort of checks to say, like if P1 is not null, then P1 don't get
car.
And then we might have captured the car.
And then we might have had to say something like if a car is not null, then car died, get.
Make.
You see how tedious all of that is, and however deep you want it to go, you might have had to keep
writing all these nested ifs or something equivalent to that, right?
So again, this is just so much more concise to be able to use the mapping and flat map.
The only thing is to keep in mind that with this flat map, the fact that you do have to kind of have
a little bit of awareness of the internal model or API to know, Oh, this method, what does it get?
Car now returns and optional of a car and not an actual car?
I don't know.
I wonder if maybe some at some point in the future, perhaps the makers will give us a third map method
that's like really smart, like smart map or something, and it'll maybe just test for that double optionality
or something like that.
And just or maybe you just use a flat map everywhere.
I don't know.
I'm sure there's pros and cons to that, but I don't know.
I think a lot of developers might not mind seeing something like that.
So at any rate, there you go with the flat mapping and all of that.
So let's get rid of all of that.
And so now that we've done that, I want to do something even a little more interesting.
I think I want to revisit our repository class and I want to be able to use the repository class now
to save these instances of this person or these people.
Right.
I think that would be kind of cool, but we're going to do this for a particular reason.
If you recall when we modeled the repository class, in fact, here, let's just jump into it so you
can see.
OK, so here we are in the repository class.
And if we go down to there it is fined by IED.
You'll notice that it just returns whatever our data type was.
And if it can't find an object by that particular I.D., it just throws an exception.
So now that we are learning about options, I can tell you that a lot of newer APIs that do things like
this may opt not to throw an exception anymore, but instead to model the API such that it would just
return an optional.
OK.
And that way, no exceptions are needed.
You either have something in the optional or you don't right, and then you can use these optional techniques
to proceed accordingly with whatever you did or didn't get.
So I think what I want to do here is let's revise this method now to no longer throw this exception
and instead to just return an optional every time, which should be actually quite easy because that's
what we're getting out of the fine first, anyway.
Right?
All right.
So in fact, while we're here, we might as well just start with that.
So let's just get rid of this like so and now we get an error because this is returning an optional
but we said it returns a T.
So now we need to change this to be an optional oops optional of a T.
And I need to import optional.
There we go.
And so that part was easy.
Now I see that have got an error down here, by the way.
So you've seen me kind of look at these a few times, but I've never called it out explicitly.
So yeah, you can see your errors right there and you can even click on that and jump straight to that
error there.
So the error now is what?
OK, so now the error is the fact that we're doing pre product find by I.D. And now and currently we're
coating this as if it was this going to return an actual person.
But we know that it's not now and now it's returning an optional of a person, and so we will have to
actually dig that out.
So in this particular case, don't do as I show, do as I say, but I am, in this particular case,
going to go ahead and just call that get because I happen to know, without a doubt for this simple
code that we're writing here, which is example code anyway, that there's no chance in this particular
case that that is going to be null.
I know that it's not null.
And so I'm just going to call that get.
So now let's jump back over here to the optional test.
And so now we want to create an instance of our repository and then use it to save a few people and
then retrieve one of those people back out by I.D..
Now if you will recall, though, before we can use the person class, this person class with that repository,
this person class has to first implement a couple of interfaces, right?
Because that's how we kind of wrote it.
So one thing is that the person class is going to have to have an I.D. and it needs to be of type long.
So I'm just going to model that here.
Like so.
And now these are in error because they don't have IDs.
So I'm going to go ahead and just apply them now.
I will say this will let me go ahead and put these IDs in first, and I can use anything here.
One hundred al and 200 L like sir.
And now the errors have gone away, so we're good there.
Now one thing I will say is that in real life, you typically wouldn't be creating these records and
hard coding IDs into them.
Most APIs that let us save data to a data store of some sort like a database or whatever you would create
the person and leave the I.D. null.
And then when you save the person to the data, store the code that does the saving to the data store
would actually be responsible for either generating an I.D. for you or the data store would generate
the I.D. and then the code.
The repository in this case would take that generated ID and then stick it back into our person class
in this case.
And then it would return us, that person in large part so that we would have an easy way of determining
what the newly generated ID was.
And we could have modeled it that way.
And I know maybe we'll go back and do it.
But I just wanted to point out in real life, you wouldn't normally be creating your own IDs.
You'd be letting the underlying database code and database system generate those ideas for you.
OK.
But this is a poor man's implementation for right now.
OK, so now we've addressed that, and then we need the person class to implement our two interfaces,
right?
So to do that, we can simply say implements.
And I think it was ideal, and we need to specify what is the data type for the IDs here as a generic.
And that was long.
And then I think we also had to implement one other flag interface, so I could have just gone back
and remove that flag interface, but that's all right.
And that was like savable.
Here we go.
And notice again that these are being presented with the class that they live in because these are both
nested classes or nested interfaces, really.
Right.
So their repository that savable and repository that idea.
OK.
And so now our repository can work with this person class.
Now notice I don't need to do anything for the car because we're not saving cars on their own.
The cars are kind of embedded inside of the person, right?
And that's another thing that we haven't done a whole lot of in this course is showing these slightly
more hierarchical domain models where you can have a domain object or class that itself is comprised
of other classes, right?
And you can build these fairly complex, potentially complex hierarchies, class hierarchies.
All right.
So now that we've got that, let's go ahead and create an instance of a repository so repository.
And I have to say now what kind of data types this repository is going to be working with.
So it's going to be working with my person class.
Now notice here I have two persons because we also modeled a nested person class inside of the repository
class itself.
We don't want that one.
We want the person that is the nested class inside of the optional test.
And again, I'm using the word class and record interchangeably because they are almost the same thing.
So there's our person and then we have to also supply the data type for the IDs, which is type long.
All right.
And then we'll call this repo and then we'll say new repository like so.
And I just want to point out also that again, our use of these generics here where we're specifying
the data type of the objects that we will be storing and then also the data type of the IDs for those
objects, you're actually going to see this pattern exactly like this in my next course, where I will
be teaching the spring framework.
So again, I just wanted you to know that this isn't totally contrived.
This is modeled off of a real framework that does things pretty identically to this, at least at this
point.
OK.
All right.
So now that we've got that, we can go ahead and start saving our object, so then we can call Repo
Dot Save P1 now the save method is returning a reference to the P1, but I'm just ignoring that right?
So I could capture that if I wanted to save P1, right?
I could do that.
But I'm I don't have any intention of doing anything with that saved P1, so I'm not capturing these.
All right.
And let's save the other one.
Also P2 like so all right.
So we've got a couple of records saved.
And so now I guess I'm going to delete all of that and then let's just try to retrieve something.
So let's do Repo Dot, find my I.D. And first, we'll start off with the happy path and we'll just retrieve
Item 200 right now.
As you already know, this should return an optional, but let's just run it and see.
There we go.
Yeah, so we're getting an optional of a person, so that's working, OK?
And so now we can dig in on that person and let's start off by just getting like the first name, maybe.
And so I will use Map and we'll do person first name.
Now that's going to still return an optional it'll be an optional of the of a string, right?
So then we can supply and or else.
First name not found.
So we'll run that.
There we go, so we get Jerry out of that, and maybe I should reformat that a bit, and in fact, maybe
I should just extract all of that out into its own line.
First, let's just call it f name.
Here we go.
And then let's let's clean this up a little bit.
There we go.
Run that one more time.
OK, cool.
So there's Jerry.
So now let's refer to an idea that we know doesn't exist, right?
So 300 should not be in here.
So now if we run this?
See, see, now isn't that nice?
We don't have to deal with an exception where we'd have to use a try catch block and then try it in
and then catch it and then do some alternative business because we didn't get the thing that we were
looking for the record that we were looking for right now.
Instead, we can just use the same code for both circumstances of whether or not we found the actual
person from the data store from the repository.
And we don't have to really change anything else.
And this is much more concise code than even having to do the try catch block and all of that business,
which I really don't like.
And most Java developers don't really care for doing a whole lot of try catch blocks because it just
kind of looks nasty.
So isn't that just really concise and nice?
And like I said before, there is a bit of a movement in the Java community to embrace the use of optional,
particularly in APIs.
All right.
And so now I've got one more technique.
I want to show you with the optional.
And let's see for this technique.
I think I'm going to delete all of that again, but I'll keep these people.
And in fact, I think I want to make maybe a couple more people here.
So let's just do this.
I'm just, by the way, I did a command there or control D to duplicate Line 13 a couple of times,
and I will just make a p.
Let's see here.
Well.
Let me select these and then I'm going to move these down.
Yeah, I guess we'll do it that way.
So let's call this PS4 and PS5 and let's have a Jake and a Jonny.
And let's see, this person was driving a three and this person is driving an s and we've got a blue.
And a black and.
2019 and 2021.
All right.
So now we've got these five variables here.
One of them is null.
Right?
All right.
So now here's what I want to do.
I want to create a list of optional people so these people wrapped inside of options, OK?
And I'll show you why in just a moment here.
So let's just do that.
So here's a list of optional.
Persons.
And we will call these people equals.
Now I'm going to initialize this list using the list that of convenience method here and notice all
this junk shows up.
I'm just going to hit escape to make that go away.
And now I want to just wrap all of my people inside of this list that of now, because this is a list
of optional people, though I cannot just do like this.
I can't do that.
What I need to do instead is to do optional dot of one comma, optional dot of optional dot of P2.
Optional now, this third one is null, so I'll have to use of Nullarbor for P3.
Optional thought of.
For P4.
Scroll over here and optional thought of four P5.
There we go.
All right, so now I've got my list.
And now that I have a list of people, I want to stream over them and let's see, I want to maybe just,
I don't know, print out their first names using something like a for each.
Right?
So you might think of doing something like p p dot, whatever.
But.
What are these objects?
He is not a person.
He is an optional because I have a list of options of person, right?
So I can't just start referring to, you know, the properties of a person down here in this for each
like this.
Right?
So I would actually need to map these first.
So let me do that so I can do a map.
And then I can do an optional.
Get now, I said before not to use get, but in this particular case, I'm going to make it OK and I'll
show you why in just a moment here.
All right, so I can do it get.
So now that's going to unwrap the objects out of their options.
And now I have the actual objects at this point.
And now I can access the fields of the individual people, right?
And so now if I wanted to print out their first names, I could do system that out that print line.
He dot.
First name, right, I could do that.
And actually, I could be even more concise than that.
I could do another mapping, so this first mapping is unwrapping the people out of the options, right?
Then I could do another mapping where I could convert the people to just their first names, right?
So I could do person first name like this.
And then down here in the in the for each, I could get even more concise and then just say system dot
out the oops front line like that, right?
And I don't even have to pass in any arguments because it knows to just take this simple value and match
it up right there.
Now I showed you all of this because there's a problem with it.
Let me go ahead and run it and we'll see what that problem is.
Ooh, look at that.
It blew up.
Where do you think it blew up?
It blew up when the stream got to P3 because P3 is no right, no value present.
So what can we do about that?
It's actually pretty simple.
We can simply do an easy filtering here, and all we need to do is this.
Flip-Flops that filter optional.
Is present.
So remember that now that all of these people objects are wrapped inside an optional.
If any of them happen to be null, we can simply filter those out by using the optional that is present
method like we have here, right?
And so then they'll never even make it to the through the rest of this.
So now if I run this?
We're all good, right?
Anything that any Noel person is just getting ignored out of the stream anyway.
And while we're talking about streams and as I'm wrapping this up, one other thing I just want to show
you real quick here is that the optional class?
Let me let's see here if I let me just create an optional of one of these real quick optional of P1,
and then I will capture that.
Sure, we'll call it that.
All right.
So if I jump on here, there's one other method that we didn't really take a look at explicitly, and
that is stream.
So this is kind of cool because just as the collection's classes have a stream method on them, the
optional class has a stream method too, though that is a little bit of a weird concept because it makes
more sense conceptually to probably most of you, including me, that a collections class would have
a stream because you're streaming over objects in the stream, right?
You potentially have multiple objects.
In the case of optional, it also has a stream, but there's only ever going to be at most one object
in that stream, right?
And that one object will be if the optional object isn't null right, then that object will be in the
stream if it is null.
Then there will be nothing there.
So let's see how we could just use this real quick.
So similarly to what we've got down here, if we do a stream here and let's say that we ultimately just
want to print out the first the name, then we can do a map.
Of person, first name, like so.
And then a four each, for example.
And then we can just say system died out front line.
And so here I'll just comment all of this out.
And we'll run this.
All right, so there's Tom, that's coming out of this.
But now if I point this at P3, which is null and because it's null, I need to now use a of null bowl,
right?
I need to do that.
But now let's run this and now we just get nothing.
But nothing blows up either.
We just get nothing because now what ends up happening is this is going to end up being a stream with
no valid object in it.
So using the stream method on an optional is quite similar to kind of doing this bit here, having an
array of options, but you only have one optional in the array and then testing for is present before
you proceed with the rest of the stream, right?
So this is sort of the equivalent to using the stream method directly on an optional.
And so that's just another nice way of doing some type of processing or whatever it is that you may
want to do at the end of the chain at the end of the pipeline, with that optional without having to
explicitly write like some type of test code or something like that.
All right.
And so finally, that will wrap up what we are learning with the optional class.
Very, very powerful class.
I would I definitely encourage you to use it in place of a lot of null checks and things like that.
And if you end up getting a job some place as a Java developer, there's a good chance that you won't
see people taking full advantage of optional, probably because they just don't realize how powerful
it is.
I went many, many, many, many years of knowing that the optional class was there, and I even used
it a little bit, but I barely even scratched the surface of what it could do.
And now, with your knowledge of lambdas and streams, you can combine that with the optional class
and really write some incredibly powerful code that is much more concise and more readable at the same
time.
All right.
That's going to wrap this up, see in the next one.